Unit 1: UGC NET Teaching Aptitude Syllabus
The following are the important topics of Unit 1 in Paper 1 UGC NET Syllabus 2024 -

Teaching: Concept, Objectives, Levels of teaching, Characteristics, and requirements.
Learner’s characteristics: Adolescent and adult learners, Individual differences.
Factors affecting teaching: Teacher, Learner, Support material, Instructional facilities, Learning environment, Institution.
Methods of teaching in higher learning institutions: Teacher-centered vs. Learner-centered, offline vs. online methods.
Teaching Support System: Traditional, Modern, and ICT-based.
Evaluation Systems: Elements, Types, Evaluation in Choice Based Credit System, Computer-based Testing, Innovations.
Unit 2: UGC NET Research Aptitude Syllabus
The following are the topics covered in Unit 2 of Paper 1 for UGC NET Syllabus 2024-

Research: Meaning, Types, Characteristics, Positivism, Post-positivist approach.
Methods of Research: Experimental, Descriptive, Historical, Qualitative, Quantitative.
Steps of Research.
Thesis and Article writing: Format, referencing.
Application of ICT in research.
Research ethics.
Unit 3: UGC NET Comprehension Syllabus
In this section, questions based on Reading Comprehension will be asked. A total of 5 questions are asked from this Reading Comprehension unit for a total of 10 marks. Although there is no fixed syllabus for this section, unseen passages based on History, Science & Technology, Literature or Philosophy are typically asked in the exam.

Unit 4: UGC NET Communication Syllabus
The following are the topics covered in Unit 4 of Paper 1 for UGC NET Syllabus 2024

Communication: Meaning, types, characteristics.
Effective communication: Verbal, Non-verbal, Inter-Cultural, group communications, Classroom communication.
Barriers to effective communication.
Mass-Media and Society.
Unit 5: UGC NET Mathematical Reasoning and Aptitude Syllabus
The following are the topics in Unit 5 of Paper 1 for UGC NET Syllabus 2024 -

Types of reasoning.
Number series, Letter series, Codes, Relationships.
Mathematical Aptitude: Fraction, Time & Distance, Ratio and Proportion, Percentage, Profit and Loss, Interest, Discounting, Averages.
Unit 6: UGC NET Logical Reasoning Syllabus
The following are some of the important topics from the Logical Reasoning unit in the UGC NET Syllabus for Paper 1 -

Structure of arguments.
Deductive Reasoning and Inductive Reasoning.
Venn diagram.
Indian Logic.
Unit 7: UGC NET Data Interpretation Syllabus
The following are the important topics from the UGC NET syllabus for Data Interpretation - 

Sources, acquisition, Classification of Data.
Quantitative and Qualitative Data.
Graphical representation.
Data Interpretation.
Data and Governance.
Unit 8: UGC NET Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Syllabus
The following are the important topics from the UGC NET Syllabus for ICT unit - 

ICT: General abbreviations.
Basics of Internet, Intranet, E-mail, Audio and Video-conferencing.
Digital initiatives in higher education.
ICT and Governance.
Unit 9: UGC NET People, Development and Environment Syllabus
The following are the UGC NET Syllabus topics for the People, Development and Environment unit -

Development and environment: Millennium development, Sustainable development goals.
Human and environment interaction: Anthropogenic activities, impacts on the environment.
Environmental issues: Air pollution, Water pollution, Soil pollution, Noise pollution, Waste, Climate change, Socio-Economic and Political dimensions.
Impacts of pollutants on human health.
Natural and energy resources: Solar, Wind, Soil, Hydro, Geothermal, Biomass, Nuclear, Forests.
Natural hazards and disasters: Mitigation strategies.
Environmental Protection Act, National Action Plan on Climate Change, International agreements/efforts.

Unit 10: UGC NET Higher Education System Syllabus

The following are the topics in Unit 10 of Paper 1 for UGC NET Syllabus 2024 -
Institutions of higher learning and education in ancient India.
Evolution of higher learning and research in Post Independence India.
Oriental, Conventional, and Non-conventional learning programs.
Professional, Technical, and Skill-Based education.
Value education and environmental education.
Policies, Governance, and Administration.